So we've talked about the importance of making sure that our U-V map isn't stretching the texture because
any stretching of this test pattern here is telling us that any other texture we put down on this is
also going to be stretched.
So if we're putting down a brick texture or concrete texture or actually words on the object it would
be very obvious if the texture was stretched and we wouldn't want that.
So in addition to making sure our textures aren't stretched we also need to make sure that there aren't
any unnecessary seams.
So if we take a look at this texture here you can see that as the checker pattern wraps around the object
there's a break there that texture isn't continuous from one side to the other maybe depending on what
this object is in our scene we need that texture to wrap smoothly around the object without a visible
seam so.
Another thing we need to be mindful of when U-V mapping is where to place our seams.
So let's say we wanted this texture to wrap seamlessly along the edge there we could use Blender's Mark
seam tool to tell Blendr where to cut the object where to cut the seams so that the important parts
of the texture are seamless.
So I'll change over to edge view and then I'll begin marking a few seem so I'll select an edge.
There may be one there.
Go on around the object like this.
So I'll just kind of mark those seams here with those edges selected I'll press control.
And I'll choose Mark seam from the edges menu.
Now you can see that there's these red lines telling us that these are where our seems are going to
be.
All right so now I'll select everything with the a key.
I'll press you again.
And instead of choosing smart U-V project allowing Blendr to choose where to put the seams.
I'm going to choose unwrap and have Blendr use my choices as to where the seams should be.
So I click unwrap and there we go.
Now we see a very different pattern for our U-V islands and less time about of edit mode and take a
look at this.
Notice now I was able to get that Checker pattern to wrap seamlessly around the object.
So U-V mapping can often be a strategic exercise in that you're trying to figure out what is the least
prominent place to put a seam.
Where does the texture need to be seamless and where can I hide a seam so it won't be distracting from
the viewer.
Now I should also say that the U-V unwrapping process should be done at the end of the modeling process.
Once you've established your U-V map you shouldn't be doing any more modeling.
Here let me show you what I mean.
If we tab into edit mode and go to face mode I'll select this face and I'll extrude it up.
Now take a look at what's going on here.
If we select our entire object the U.V. map hasn't changed any but since our object has changed the
U.V. map is no longer representative of our 3D object.
So now that I've changed my 3D model I'm going to have to go back and reuse the map the object.
So if I take a look at this again I can see that these seams we're just split when I extruded these
up.
So what I can do is go back to edge mode and select these edges here and press control easy and clear
those seams and now select these edges to connect those seams back up control the mark seam and now
if I select everything press you and unwrap you can see that I've re-established that proper relationship
between the U-V map and the 3D object.
Now our textures are unstretched and at least in some places hopefully the important places the seams
are hidden.
Now there's one more thing you need to watch out for.
Not only in terms of extruding and inserting edge loops and things like that but you also need to watch
out for scaling.
So let's say I had this object and I scaled it in Object mode in the Z-axis something like this pretty
tall Let's do that.
Now let me go back into edit mode and hit you and unwrap and look it up here.
It says object has nonuniform scale.
Unwrap will operate in a non scaled version of the mesh.
So what that's telling you is that the U-V unwrap doesn't match with the particular scale of the object.
So if I hit the end key to bring up the properties panel over on the right and I tab into object mode
you can see that the scale is five point three and I've got one and one for the x and y.
This is nonuniform because all of these are not ones to be uniform they would all need to be ones to
do that.
I can apply the scale to this object as it is now.
So I'll press control a.
And now with the Apply transforms menu I can choose scale.
Now my scale over here is all ones.
If I tab back into edit mode and press you and unwrap now are U.V. unwrap is in proportion to the scale
of our 3D object.
So not only should you be doing your U-V unwrapping after the model is completely done you should also
be mindful that the scale needs to be uniform to get the U-V islands to really represent the 3D object.
And as it is in terms of proportion and scale.